[SYCL][Doc][RTC] Add device global queries to kernel_compiler extension (#17401)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_kernel_compiler.asciidoc

sycl::kernel k_int = kb.ext_oneapi_get_kernel("bartmpl<int>");
----

=== New kernel bundle member functions for device globals

This extensions adds the following new `kernel_bundle` member functions to let
the host application interact with device globals defined in runtime-compiled
code. Device globals are only supported for the `source_language::sycl`
language.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl {

template <bundle_state State>
class kernel_bundle {
  // Continued from "New kernel bundle member functions"

  bool ext_oneapi_has_device_global(const std::string &name);
  void *ext_oneapi_get_device_global_address(const std::string &name,
                                             const device &dev);
  size_t ext_oneapi_get_device_global_size(const std::string &name);
};

} // namespace sycl
----

|====
a|
[frame=all,grid=none]
!====
a!
[source,c++]
----
bool ext_oneapi_has_device_global(const std::string &name)
----
!====

_Constraints:_ This function is not available when `State` is
`bundle_state::ext_oneapi_source`.

> _Returns:_ The value `true` only if
> 
> * the kernel bundle was created from a bundle of state
>   `bundle_state::ext_oneapi_source` in the language `source_language::sycl`, and
> * it defines a device global whose name is `name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Returns:_ `true` if and only if all of the following conditions hold:

* the kernel bundle was created from a bundle of state
  `bundle_state::ext_oneapi_source` in the language `source_language::sycl`, and
* the kernel bundle defines a device global whose name is `name`.
```

a|
[frame=all,grid=none]
!====
a!
[source,c++]
----
void *ext_oneapi_get_device_global_address(const std::string &name,
                                           const device &dev)
----
!====

_Constraints:_ This function is not available when `State` is
`bundle_state::ext_oneapi_source`.

_Returns:_ A device USM pointer to the storage for the device global `name` on
device `dev`.

_Remarks:_ The contents of the device global may be read or written from the
host by reading from or writing to this address. If the address is read before
any kernel writes to the device global, the read operation returns the device

> global's initial value.

Reviewer: What is the intended usage of these functions?

`sycl_ext_oneapi_device_global` defines explicit `copy` overloads that take a `device_global`, and as far as I can tell there was no way before to get the address and size of a `device_global` from the host.

I might have misunderstood something, but the current situation feels weird and incomplete to me. It seems like a developer working with a `device_global` would need to know whether the global is defined in their regular SYCL program or via run-time compiled source, and then use different functions to read/write the global.  Is that right?  If so, why can't we use the same mechanism everywhere?

Also tagging @steffenlarsen to look at this, because he knows a lot more about `device_global` than I do.

Reviewer 2: The design of the API was done by @gmlueck as part of the module API and feedback he gave on an earlier PR.
AFAIK, the API was designed to meet customer requirements and align with existing APIs, but @gmlueck might have more background on this.
